When the Shooting Stops. Directed by Christine Weber. Films Media Group, 2018. Alexander Street.

Transcript provided on Alexander Street.

https://video-alexanderstreet-com.proxy1.library.virginia.edu/watch/when-the-shooting-stops/transcript


00:00:00[music] 
00:00:05Every year a million lives are shattered by gun violence causing death or injury in 100,000 American families. 
00:00:15UNKNOWN Our children's blood, one color years ago, began to drip in our streets from gunfire. It went unnoticed. No one asked why. Now, the blood from the bodies of our children is blood in our streets, how dare we not asked why? 
00:00:35Silent Shoe March Los Angeles, California 
00:00:40UNKNOWN The memory of my son, Willie Brian(ph) Brooks, and all the other children that have lost their lives to gunfire. I question the community, I question the California State legislator, I question America. Will the power of gun and money mean more than the lives of our children? 
00:01:00LISA DAVIS LARRY Gun violence in Los Angeles has reached epidemic proportions. Families, politicians, and even the police hit the streets to demand legislative action 
00:01:15UNKNOWN Stop the violence now! Stop the violence now! 
00:01:15UNKNOWN Stop the violence! Stop the violence! 
00:01:20Sheriff Lee Baca Los Angeles County 
00:01:20LEE BACA There is no excuse, not a gang related ones or any kind of an explanation of a bad life as a child that will ever justify the taking of another person's life. 
00:01:40When the Shooting Stops a Lisa Davis Larry Film Charles Caplin Family Indianapolis, Indiana birthplace of Charles Caplin 
00:01:45[music] 
00:01:50LISA DAVIS LARRY When I was 16 years old, my grandfather, Charles Chaplin was murdered. He owned a department store in downtown Indianapolis. He remained in the neighborhood while many other businesses moved out. 
00:02:00Steve Caplin Charles Caplin's Son 
00:02:00STEVE CAPLIN You know, there's people in this world who are gatherers of other people, magnets. And I guess you could call my father a magnet. 
00:02:10Julia Snyder Charles Caplin's Daughter 
00:02:15JULIA SNYDER He was not self-centered at all. He really thought more about other people than he, he you know, thought about himself. 
00:02:20STEVE CAPLIN If he met you, he knew you and, ah, you wanted to be around him. 
00:02:25LISA DAVIS LARRY While working in his store on October 25th, 1973, my grandfather was shot at point-blank range. 
00:02:35STEVE CAPLIN I think 800 people attended his funeral. I don't know of many funerals where that many people came out. There were three people involved in his death. There was the individual who was the lookout. He stood up front and enabled the other two to, to carry out what they were going to carry out. 
00:03:00Sylvia Caplin wife of Charles Caplin 
00:03:00SYLVIA CAPLIN Old people would call the story after he got killed. Salesmen had come and talk to him and then well, he's gone right now. I'll have him call you when he comes back. Might blow them away when you do things like that but that's the way I answer them cause I'm gonna miss that he wasn't around. 
00:03:20LISA DAVIS LARRY For years, no one in my family would talk about it. Then 22 years later, I received a phone call about the parole hearing for one of the three men convicted in my grandfather's murder. This phone call stirred up old feelings. It made me want to search out other families like mine to learn how they came to terms with the gun violence in their lives. 
00:03:40Lisa Bryant Family 
00:03:40WILL BRYANT, SR. There are four joys in my life. The first was when I get married, the second was when Will was born, the third was when Lisa was born and perhaps, the greatest joy of all was when Lisa graduated from Princeton University. Here, a black kids, ah, attending a prestigious Ivy League School. 
00:03:55Will Bryant, Sr. father of Lisa Bryant 
00:04:00WILL BRYANT, SR. Of all the statistics and reports out saying that, ah, a, a black kid or a Chicano kid can't do this or can't do that. Lisa went there and she graduated with honors. Upon completion of Princeton, she had a four-year military obligation as a result of the scholarship. She was in what they call a temporary duty status down in Fort Bragg, North Carolina. 
00:04:20Hardy Hall army dormitory Fort Bragg, North Carolina Emily Bryant mother of Lisa Bryant 
00:04:20EMILY BRYANT This man came up behind her with a gun and forced her into his room and, uhm, attempted to rape her which he didn't. 
00:04:30Col. Will Bryant, Sr. Vietnam Veteran 
00:04:30WILL BRYANT, SR. Then came up and shot her at a close range while she was down with her large caliber handgun. She didn't know this man. He was 33 years old, married with two children. It changed my life forever and of course it took my daughter's life forever. But for this man to come in with two guns, there's a rage in me, I prayed to God that this man will not be release in my lifetime. 
00:05:00Gilbert Salinas Family Marta Salinas mother of Gilbert Salinas 
00:05:05MARTA SALINAS Ah, he was very respectful kid with the teachers and he always get a good grades. 
00:05:10GILBERT SALINAS I guess the problem really came when I left campus, when I was out after school. There wasn't a lot of programs out there. There wasn't a lot to do after school and so I found myself getting in trouble. A lot of the people that I hung out with chose who commit crimes, ah, sell drugs, ah, total round weapons. Uhm, I, I, I chose to hang out with that lifestyle. 
00:05:40MARTA SALINAS Oh no, I didn't know he was involved with gangs because my son was a very, very good boy. 
00:05:45GILBERT SALINAS It went after my 17th birthday, I was hanging around a bunch of friends. There was a lot of alcohol drinking at the party. I had a lot of friends there that would, ah, had guns and toying around weapons. Uhm, before you knew it, my friend that have been drinking, ah, the most that night, he took out a weapon and started waving in and around. Uhm, when I went up to him and tried to stop him and he started shooting at the crowd. Apparently, ah, one of the bullets that went in to my stomach, ah, largely my spine. I didn't wake up for 26 days later and I found out that I was married instantly overnight to a wheelchair for the rest of my life. 
00:06:30[music] 
00:06:30Joe Hawkins and Gerald Roberts Family Frank Hawkins father of Gerald and Joe 
00:06:35FRANK HAWKINS We would hitch out our barbeque pit and we'll head out to the ocean and sit out there and then barbeque and fish out there and we have a nice time out there. The boys, they really liked it and Joe, he was a little bit different like me and we are all out there. It's a family type of thing. It was like, "Oh, I will get away from this," then you go to find him a little spot further down. Over there we had a fish bite himself and we really had a lot of fun. 
00:07:00[sil.] 
00:07:00Lorna Hawkins mother of Gerald and Joe 
00:07:05LORNA HAWKINS Joe and Gerald were both charmers of course. But Joe, has was more quiet, laid back and he loved to, you know, deal with cars. He was, he was about, I don't know, 14. He started working on a major, ah, body collision company and he deal with Mercedes and all the nice cars. But Joe never grew up out of his life's shyness and his love to be like, free and, and young and all of the kids loved him around here. All the young boys, they all looked up to him and all ran to him when they were in trouble, you know, he was that type. He didn't care about like fashion a lot. I mean, you know, take a shower, get dressed and he's out of here. But Gerald on the other hand you know, it took him all day to get dressed and every day he's just perfect. His shoes have to be clean all the time. 
00:07:50Carlotta sister of Gerald and Joe 
00:07:50CARLOTTA HAWKINS He had tons of shoes and they matched with his shirt and his pants. He was a roue. That's one of my fondest memory of him. We grew really close. 
00:08:00FRANK HAWKINS Thanksgiving eve, Lorna and I had just come in from the grocery store, you know, getting everything together. He would have settled down, ah, getting ready to prepare a Thanksgiving dinner like normal family and, ah, our Joe had just got off from work and was going over by a friend in here then and, ah, something had went down over that way. 
00:08:25LORNA HAWKINS I ran over and I saw my son laying next to his car and, uhm, I didn't hear any like, ah, paramedics or sirens so I ran over here and got the truck. The bullet was lodged in his eye and I can see it there. And he was trying to breathe but a lot of blood was coming out. And so at that time I knew he was dying and so I started praying with him. 
00:08:45LORNA HAWKINS This is the spot where Joe was murdered at and his car was almost parked at the same spot where that van is when, ah, the car drove from here and put the lights on and start to drive by, shooting. 
00:09:00LORNA HAWKINS After my son was murdered, it was-- the whole neighborhood changed. It was like we were all sent into a shockwave. People started walking their kids to school a lot more and they haven't stop since. In 1992, I had a second who was murdered. His name is Gerald. 
00:09:20FRANK HAWKINS And, ah, he was doing real good. Going to college to be a probation officer and, ah, he's very good in that and very attentive in making sure that he's able to take care of his kid. 
00:09:35LORNA HAWKINS He's at the telephone booth on 108 in Alameda. Ah, talking to someone and then there's two guys across from him. And that's when, when the this robbery attempt occurred and they shot him in the stomach and they took off money into the neighborhood and burst in somebody's house. But they said, "Oh, no. He's not gonna die here." And they actually picked him up and took him out and put him on the lawn which I felt was awful. 
00:10:00FRANK HAWKINS A lot of folks who really don't understand the tragedy that it have on that family. For instance, me, it was like I couldn't really relax or take time off from Joe's death and that's the time when Gerald when-- and Gerald's death occurred. It was like the bills will have to be paid, ah, life will go on and we will still have to try to live close to normal as possible but it was real hard. I mean, I've asking time for it. I didn't have time to cry. 
00:10:35Rabbi Neil Commess-Daniels Beth Shir Shalom 
00:10:40NEIL COMMESS-DANIELS The reality of the death never goes away. There's always a scar. It doesn't mean that things can't come back together, they do. 
00:10:55SYLVIA CAPLIN My son said my life didn't start again in 10 years after my husband got killed. And you guys might wanna say, "Look at that big boy. Well I guess he sees things about me that I don't feel about me. Maybe he thinks that I, I never stay home, I go a lot, I go to shows, I go to plays. I just keep busy, that's all. 
00:11:20NEIL COMMESS-DANIELS If you are a guest of our synagogue this evening and you're in the first year of mourning or, you are observing a yahrzeit, the anniversary of a death this, this week. I will I ask you to add the name that you are remembering. 
00:11:40LISA DAVIS LARRY Every year on the anniversary of my grandfather's murder, I light a memorial or yahrzeit candle in memory of him. 
00:11:45adapted from a poem by Chaim Stern 
00:11:50LISA DAVIS LARRY To the sacred time, I come drawn by the eternal one that binds my soul to the soul of my beloved Papa Chuck(ph). I cannot look to you to light my burdens, lend me your strength, your wisdom, your faith. I hear your voice within me and your tender glance remains a joy to me for you are a part of me forever. 
00:12:101995 William Graham parole hearing for Charles' murder 
00:12:15WILLIAM GRAHAM That's all I need to talk about. 
00:12:15UNKNOWN Tim Lut-- Tim Lutman(ph) ordered the two customers - 
00:12:20WILLIAM GRAHAM Yes, Ma'am. 
00:12:20UNKNOWN - and the clerk on the floor, ah, to the back of the room or something? 
00:12:25WILLIAM GRAHAM To the floor. 
00:12:25STEVE CAPLIN I have forgotten that Graham was the name of one of my father's killers, uhm, I mean, he was convicted. And there was a case that I was looking for, it was Graham versus State and I pull out Graham versus State that I think it is and I start reading and there is Charles Caplin in this case. I'm, I'm reading it and I can't put the case down. And I wanted to put the case down and I can't put the case down. I have to read the case. 
00:13:05LISA DAVIS LARRY The two men who shot my grandfather, the Owens brothers received double life sentences. Twenty-two years late, William Graham, the accomplice was up for parole. 
00:13:101995 Caplin family testifies at Graham parole hearing 
00:13:15LISA DAVIS LARRY My family decided to testify in separate hearing from his. It was painful to attend that hearing but my grandmother, uncle, mother and I attended the hearing anyway. We didn't see him testify but a month later I received the tape. 
00:13:30WILLIAM GRAHAM I actually, I didn't shoot and kill Mr. Caplin as I'm charged with which is first degree murder. I have premeditated and I had shot no bullet to Mr. Caplin... 
00:13:40UNKNOWN Mr. Graham, there's is a loss there, a loss that they are still incapable of coping with. I don't know where people can find forgiveness and I don't know where people can find understanding. 
00:13:50UNKNOWN About today is a denial source. 
00:13:50LISA DAVIS LARRY I heard the word, parole denied. I was so relieved after I heard those two words because that was the first time that I felt there was any justice in my grandfather's death. 
00:14:002001 William Graham's final parole hearing 
00:14:05LISA DAVIS LARRY It's been over 30 years and the accomplice, William Graham was granted parole in April 2001. The release of William Graham was disturbing but I felt he didn't pose a threat to our family. Still, I do not forgive him for his part in my grandfather's death. 
00:14:20Sidney Miller, MD trauma surgeon, Caplin cousin 
00:14:25SIDNEY MILLER There are a lot of lingering problems are going and all sorts of a related issues in a post-traumatic stress syndrome that family members hold. Ah, from eating disorders to sleeping disorders uhm, and it does bring chaos into any kind of family situation that, that can last for years and sometimes never goes away. 
00:14:45WILL BRYANT, SR. After that hearing, ah, I really didn't sleep because of having to relive this and the anger and the, the rage that I felt within me of having to go before the army after he had been given a life sentence to almost make a plea for my daughter's justice. 
00:15:05EMILY BRYANT Between March until we have our hearing, it just seems that everything's just fresh, each night I just relive what I'm gonna say to this panel. It's, it's been very, very difficult. 
00:15:20WILL BRYANT, SR. Right now even today, I don't sleep very well. And on Saturday morning, every Saturday morning I wake up around 3:30 or 4 o'clock because that's the time, approximate time that the telephone call came in from Fayetteville that notifying us of the death of Lisa. 
00:15:35Christening of Lisa Bryant's nephew 
00:15:35UNKNOWN Through Nicholas, I baptized you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. 
00:15:45EMILY BRYANT It's been difficult for, for me to even attend family gatherings. Lisa's just missing with all the nieces and the nephews and the cousins, she's not there. You know in your heart and in your mind, you just know that she's never coming back. 
00:16:05WIL BRYANT, JR. Two, three, cheese! 
00:16:10Wil Bryant, Jr. brother of Lisa Bryant 
00:16:10WIL BRYANT, JR. As it first happened, I was like, "Damn, am I gonna think about this every day?" And am I got-- no, actually it was, "Am I'm gonna think about this every minute?" Does it bother me to see, uhm, Lisa. I see Lisa to my daughter, you know. There's no therapy for what I have. I'm not gonna come out anybody's session and feel any better. They might be an answer to some of my questions as far as while feeling a certain way. I have to, I have to talk about it, I had to talk about her. Lisa was, you know, owns my heart. 
00:16:45WILL BRYANT, SR. It's almost six years after the fight and I still haven't accepted the death of my daughter. Although, I know that she's been buried I still have not released her yet. 
00:16:55EMILY BRYANT To me, she's 21 and I will never get past the age of 21. That the last time I saw her, I saw her maturing and becoming a young woman and that's the image I have. 
00:17:15WILL BRYANT, SR. It seems as if she is with me. Her spirit is with me, ah, at all time. 
00:17:20Dr. Luis Montes Founder L.A. Teens on Target 
00:17:20DR. LUIS MONTES No one deserve to be a victim of violence. No one deserves to, to be paralyzed from a preventable injury. And so why are we must producing guns and this in the United States? Why are we, ah, distributing guns to young people who are vulnerable and will use those guns to kill each other? Teens on Target was started back in 1991. Ah, there was a result of my quest to look for a violence prevention and program that I could start here in Los Angeles. Cindy Rodriguez was one of my patients. She is a 12-year-old girl that was and is a bystander was shot in the crossfire between two rival gangs as she was retrieving her mail right outside her home. 
00:18:05CINDY RODRIGUEZ SALINAS I'd never saw who, who was shooting. I just heard the shots and someone out there had got shot. He had been paralyzed from the neck down and somebody else got killed. Yeah, I have scars in my feet. I have scars in my stomach. 
00:18:15Cindy Rodriguez Salinas Gilbert's wife 
00:18:15CINDY RODRIGUEZ SALINAS My kidding was kicking out and just everything I went through the whole therapy in these 12 years have been really hard. I can understand what he's going through. Even though he's been in the wheelchair way longer that an-- I ever was, I seem get frustrated sometimes and I remember being like that. I remember getting frustrated, getting angry sometimes. I guess, that's why, you know, we’re stuck together. We have a lot of things in common. 
00:18:40GILBERT SALINAS A lot of doctors told me I never walked again and I actually got it an opportunity to prove them wrong. This is what I used to walk and it fits under my clothes. 
00:18:50CINDY RODRIGUEZ SALINAS When he puts on his braces, it is painful. Since he's always sitting down so when he puts them on, then he can feel his back stretching and, and it hurts but you know, that he's happy and it's a good pain for him. 
00:19:00UNKNOWN Pappy, do you know what it says? Power two. You win! 
00:19:05GILBERT SALINAS It does? 
00:19:05UNKNOWN Yeah. 
00:19:05GILBERT SALINAS Whoa! 
00:19:05Bridget Flores Gilbert's aunt 
00:19:05BRIDGET FLORES It was then until Gilbert, ah, went to prison and got out of prison then he realized his life was not a gang. He had to do something with his life for the people and for himself. 
00:19:15GILBERT SALINAS They came out of the hospital, I was back onto the streets, going and picking up my friends from the streets. It was the same cycle. It was beginning all over again. It was until I got into prison and I was able to find myself. I found myself writing to old friends and I had an old friend there, a girl by a name of Jeanette(ph). And she had been in the worship for two years already and she sort of became my mentor. She had her own cars. She had her life going on. She had a job. She showed me that it wasn't the end of the world for me. And one of the things that she told me about was this program that was out here that she was working for which was Teens on Target. 
00:19:55UNKNOWN Teens on Target! 
00:19:55UNKNOWN These are simple program. 
00:20:00LORNA HAWKINS This is the same my family has been through a lot over the last few years and it's devastating a lot not to mention that, uhm, I stopped working two years ago. 
00:20:10Francie Hawkins sister of Joe and Gerald 
00:20:10FRANCIE HAWKINS I don't visit the cemetery. I live my life and keep going. I think about them and I loved them but I just keep on going. 
00:20:20FRANK HAWKINS I had, uhm, quite a few sports that I used to do, that love. That basketball, and hunting and, uhm, fishing. I still do a lot of fishing and hunting. It’s out for me because it's involving a gun and I don't think that I have a will to go back to hunting and shooting a gun anymore. That's probably why I spend more time now fishing. You know when, uhm, you have something like that happen in your family you almost want somewhere to hide. You don't wanna talk, you don't wanna be interviewed, you don't wanna go nowhere, you don't wanna-- that you almost act like you don't even feel like you're part of the public anymore. I really missed the boys. 
00:21:05LORNA HAWKINS Drive By Agony is a program now, a non-profit organization I started because I wanted to have an outlet for myself and other parents of murdered children. And I want people and victims especially people who call themselves survivors or you know, victims, survivors, what difference does it make. We're the ones whose left behind to suffer. I understand that those feelings are natural and normal. But in order to, ah, let say, make your son or daughter's death not just another death to make it meaning something in your life then you have to do something with that anger and that pain. You have to do something positive. 
00:21:40Drive By Agony's Straight Talk about Violence Program 
00:21:40UNKNOWN Since you went to this program, okay? After I went to this program, I will completely control my anger. Can everybody say yes to that? 
00:21:55UNKNOWN No! No, I think. 
00:21:55UNKNOWN Yes. 
00:21:55UNKNOWN I respect the rights of others? 
00:22:00UNKNOWN We don't know. 
00:22:00UNKNOWN Yeah, sometimes. 
00:22:00UNKNOWN Most of the time... 
00:22:00LORNA HAWKINS And we're dealing with all the elementary schools in this surrounding area in South Los Angeles. These schools are in the areas where most of the crime occurs in Los Angeles County, unsolved crime. It's always gonna be somebody's neighborhood as long as people close their doors and do not become involved and try to stop the violence. 
00:22:20Dr. Luis Montes Founder L.A. Teens on Target 
00:22:25DR. LUIS MONTES You're not gonna touch every life that you go out and try to reach. You're a-- but if you touch a couple that, that's important because then in turn they touch a couple. Or, you may not see an immediate change but several months down the line or a couple of years down the line you'll see that the message that you gave, a young individual really turned his life around later on. I met Gilbert, ah, after the program was up and running close to about four or five years. So, he felt that at that point in his life he needed a change and he gave it a try and he came to, uhm, to a couple of our meetings and immediately I saw leadership skills in this individual. I felt that he would be great and, and so we threw him into the fire. 
00:23:10GILBERT SALINAS How many of you know somebody that's been shot? Raise your hand. How many of you have family members that have been shot because of, of-- with, with guns? 
00:23:15GILBERT SALINAS I always make sure I make time at least one day out of the week to go down to the schools and facilitate workshops with the kids or hang around the kids and that always brings my focus back up. 
00:23:30BRIDGET FLORES He's showing the kids that outside of the gang there's a life, there's always been a life. He found it and now wants them to. 
00:23:35Hope Center, Teens on Target Los Angeles Headquarters 
00:23:35GILBERT SALINAS One of the main reasons why we got together was, ah, we had a, a staff meeting earlier but then we came into, uhm, sort of an emergency situations in one, one of our schools. You felt the tension when you walk in the room. 
00:23:45Gilbert Salinas, Director Teens on Target 
00:23:45GILBERT SALINAS After leaving the meeting, it was from them, from the kids a more positive energy and also a promise that we would be watching those kids. 
00:23:55DR. LUIS MONTES The positive role models that you guys are for, for the other youth. And a lot of people, that only hear is negative stuff and only hear is about fighting and all they hear is violence. And all of a sudden you're just like you're a music to the ears is I'll never just let you say no. You know, there's, there's alternative. 
00:24:10Dr. John Kare, trauma surgeon King Drew Medical Center 
00:24:10DR. JOHN KARE What I'm gonna show you is what I see these are ours, these are not actors. These are real life, these are real patients, they come in to our ER every day. When people are shot we have to go in there and we have to open, open up the abdomen to heal and, and to fix all the damage. Again, the message that I wanna leave you with is that you're all very powerful, that you all can make a difference. 
00:24:40GILBERT SALINAS The doctor will keep working on people that are victims of gun violence unless we do what? 
00:24:40UNKNOWN Away from guns. 
00:24:45GILBERT SALINAS Unless we do what? I can't even hear you. 
00:24:45UNKNOWN Stay out, away from guns. 
00:24:45UNKNOWN Unless we stay away from guns. 
00:24:50GILBERT SALINAS I'm representing all those kids that, that didn't make it. I'm here doing my job, uhm, in order for us not to have another generation of falling kids and so that we don't have another generation of grieving mothers. 
00:25:10Julie Snyder Charles Caplin's Daughter 
00:25:10JULIE SNYDER I'm a teacher and I teach young children. But the kids that I worked with do come from some really bad situations. Most of them are, uhm, their very disadvantaged home lives, their poverty-stricken areas. If I can we work with the kids and get them to understand how important it is to solve problems in other ways without using violence, you know, and deadly methods like that. Uhm, I feel like I've, you know, accomplished something. 
00:25:45PRINCETON UNIVERSITY Lisa N. Bryant '93 Scholarship Fund 
00:25:45EMILY BRYANT Well, the bottom line for this scholarship is that the student is very active in community affairs particularly, uhm, if they're working with children and teaching them to read for enjoyment. And so we know that as long as Princeton University is here, that someone will get a scholarship or a number of scholarships each year. So, we're real proud of that, that her name will continue. 
00:26:10Dr. Sidney Miller, burn surgeon Wright State University 
00:26:15DR. SIDNEY MILLER The most important thing is everyone really has to realize that this is not their problem. It's not the inner city problem, it's not the-- a White, Black problem. It's not an immigrant, ah, non-immigrant problem, it's everybody's problem. And say, "No, we're not going to tolerate our own violence." And actively deal with it. 
00:26:30Lorna Hawkins and grandson Gerald Jr. four years after his father's death 
00:26:35LORNA HAWKINS We need the media to come out in full force all the time. Not just every now and then, not just a special case but to understand the needs of all victims of violent crime and how we deal, how our grandchildren deal with our-- babies feel. If we don't stop, there'll be none. 
00:26:55UNKNOWN Things are gonna get worse later. So as we go with this march let's go in the power and the anointing of the God that we served and let's go and make a statement that we are going to have a change. 
00:27:10UNKNOWN How can you know we're born in this trip? Let the angels hear you say, "We want peace!" 
00:27:15UNKNOWN We want peace! We want peace! 
00:27:20UNKNOWN We want peace! 
00:27:25LISA DAVIS LARRY I once believed my grandfather's murder was an isolated incident and only my family was affected. 
00:27:35UNKNOWN Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! 
00:27:40UNKNOWN Stop the violence. Stop all the violence. 
00:27:40LISA DAVIS LARRY These other families' tragedies made me aware that the problem is much larger. One hundred thousand families each year are torn apart by gun violence and it will go on and on and on. When will it end? How many more families will be devastated before we get involved? What are you gonna do about it? 
00:28:05UNKNOWN Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! 
00:28:15LORNA HAWKINS Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! Stop the violence! 
00:28:45"When The Shooting Stops" Crew Director Lisa Davis Larry Producers Lisa Davis Larry Randy Vandegrift Videographers Randy Vandegrift Shana Hagen Shelley Davis Wheeler Rudy Hypolite Michael Lichtenberg Essy Nikejad Andrew Parke Gary Scott Adam Tishman Composer Bronwen Jones Viola Marlow Fisher Narrator Lisa Davis Larry Editors Randy Vandegrift Lisa Davis Larry Ralph Cooley Editing Consultants Judy Citrin Jayasri Hart Teressa Longo Beth Spiegel Assistant Editor Nick Larry Technical Support Daniel Fort Teressa Longo Diannah Morgan Doug Nichols Motion Effects Stills Ralph Eusebio Carmen Woods Spanish Translation Ely Osario Research/Writing Consultants Leslie Reagan Caer Libby Pace Francine Taylor Lori Wolf Assistant to Director Lori Wolf Post Production Sound Facilities Danetracks, Inc. Re-recording Mixer/Supervising Sound Editor Matthew W. Kielkopf Dialogue Editor Kimberly Ellen Lowe Sound Designers Mark Larry Daniele Carli Sound Effects Editor Felix Lau Funding is provided by The Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma and Women In Film Finishing Funds Fiscal Sponsorship is provided by the International Documentary Association In-Kinds Donations: Sony Pictures Entertainment The Walt Disney Company Park Place Productions Robert Guenette Robert Leeburg Doug Nichols Dane A. Davis Danetracks, Inc. Publicity artwork Pat Johansen Shelley Davis-Wheeler Barbara Friedman Stock Footage provided by The Indianapolis Public Library The Indiana Parole Board "Oseh Shalom" sung by Cantor Steve Puzarne Accompanied by Pianist Bob Packham Special Thanks Mark, Nick and Cameron Larry, Robert Guenette, Robert Leeburg, Doug Nichols, Francine Taylor, Dane Davis, Ann Marie Wachel, David McRell, Paul Hackner, EAST Board of Directors, Dr. David Reath, Dr. William Fallon, Dr. Sid Miller, Judy and Bill Citrin, Dan Lebental, Butch Wertman, Drew Davis, Salvatore Solorio, Jayasri Hart, Susan Edmunson, Rishika Advani, Lorraine Salk, Lisa Leehman, Sheila Laffey, Carol Oblath, Cinewomen Documentary Group, Teens on Target, Dr. Luis Montes, Berto Jimenez, Chris Chavez, Jeanette Porche, Brigid Flores, Gilbert Salinas, Cindy Salinas and Joe Salinas, Drive-By Agony, Lorna, Frank and Francie Hawkins, Pat Shields, Charles Shields and Sharina Shields, Emily Bryant, Wil Bryant Sr. and Wil Bryant Jr., Sherry Davis, Sylvia Caplin and Steve Caplin, Julie Snyder, Caryn Paget, Kim Schmitt, Ann and Art Schwartz, Debbie Miller, Women Against Violence, Nadine Le Blanc, Dana Philips, Dr. John Kare, King Drew Medical Center, Bunche Middle School, Principal Sifuentes, Dr. William Arroyo, Rabbi Neil Comess-Daniels, Beth Shir Shalom, Patricia Ravinet, Indiana Parole Board, Ken Garland, Tim Tuchrello, Jeff Cranford, Eric Kohner of Limitbusters and Del Martin. Very Special Thanks to the families of The Bryants, The Caplins, The Hawkins, and The Salinas This film is dedicated in memory of victims: Lisa Bryant Charles Caplin Joe Hawkins Gerald Roberts To victim/survivors: Cindy Salinas Gilbert Salinas For more information on non-profit organizations that support safer gun laws and provide help to families and victims of gun violence contact: Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence Drive-By Agony Teens on Target Women Against Gun Violence © 2013 Lisa Davis Larry Films 
00:29:20[sil.] 
00:29:20END TRANSCRIPT 

